<h1>Importance of blood donation</h1> 
Blood is the most essential thing for human life. It is an inhuman body fluid that delivers necessary substances such as nutrients and oxygen to the cells. Technically, blood is a transport liquid pumped by the heart (or an equivalent structure) to all parts of the body, after which it is returned to the heart to repeat the process. To donate blood or platelets, you must be in good general health, weigh at least 110 pounds, and be at least 16 years old. Parental consent is required for blood donation by 16-year-olds; 16-year-olds are NOT eligible to donate platelets. No parental consent is required for those who are at least 17 years old.a donate?

Every adult human being (male or female) has 5 to 6 litres of blood. 

*Any person between 18 and 60 years, weighing 45 kg or more can safely donate one unit of blood, that is, 350 ml once every three months.
<p>
<h1>Why is blood important? </h1>


Blood brings oxygen and nutrients to all the parts of the body so they can keep working. Blood carries carbon dioxide and other waste materials to the lungs, kidneys, and digestive system to be removed from the body. Blood also fights infections and carries hormones around the body.
</p>

Blood is differentiated  into different group:


Blood is differentiated into types of A, B, O, AB groups. These blood types were discovered by Karl Landsteiner in 1900 and his birthday June 14 has been celebrated as blood donation day.
In many situations, blood transfusion has been important. blood is usually transfused to replace red blood cells that carry oxygen in various situation necessitate transfusion blood loss due to bleeding, surgery or a medical procedure medical conditions that prevent the body from producing new blood cells medical conditions such as anaemia, kidney disease, cancer, leukaemia, chemotherapy, chronic disease may prevent the production of new blood cells. Transfusion may be necessary until the body is able to produce its own blood cells.

Haemophilia is a rare disorder in which your blood doesn’t clot normally because it lacks sufficient blood. Clotting proteins and use to bleed for longer and that patient will be treated by plasma.
The average adult has about  10points  of blood in his body. Roughly 1 point is given during a situation. A healthy donor may donate red blood cells every 56 days. All donated blood is screened for the laboratory tests.

Age:


You are aged between 18 and 65.

* In some countries national legislation permits 16–17 year-olds to donate provided that they fulfil the physical and haematological criteria required and that appropriate consent is obtained.

* In some countries, regular donors over the age of 65 may be accepted at the discretion of the responsible physician. The upper age limit in some countries is 60.


Weight:

You weigh at least 50 kg.    

* In some countries, donors of whole blood donations should weigh at least 45 kg to donate 350 ml ± 10%.


Health: 


You must be in good health at the time you donate.

You cannot donate if you have a cold, flu, sore throat, cold sore, stomach bug or any other infection.

If you have recently had a tattoo or body piercing you cannot donate for 6 months from the date of the procedure.  If the body piercing was performed by a registered health professional and any inflammation has settled completely, you can donate blood after 12 hours.

If you have visited the dentist for a minor procedure you must wait 24 hours before donating; for major work wait a month.

You must not donate blood If you do not meet the minimum haemoglobin level for blood donation

